A system of new tax slab is being given for the taxpayers along with the old slab from 2020-21. This was proposed by the Finance Minister of India in the Budget-2020. In the old tax system, many types of exemptions are available including Section 80C, 80D, HRA etc. of the Income Tax Act, while 70 types of exemptions and deductions have been abolished in the new slab system.

NPS- National Pension Scheme:

The National Pension Scheme is a social security for old age retired persons, initiative by the Government of India. This pension scheme is for employees of public sector and private sector except armed forces employees. This scheme encourages people to invest in a pension scheme at regular period during their employment. After retirement the employee can take a certain percentage of the corpus and the remaining amount you will receive monthly pension after your retirement.
	This pension scheme is now open to all Indian Citizens. However an NRI can also open an NPS account. Contributions made by NRI are subject to regulatory requirements as prescribed by RBI and FEMA from time to time. However Overseas Citizens of India (OCI) and Person of Indian Origin (PIO) card holders and HUFs are not eligible for opening of NPS account.
	NPS scheme is most value able scheme for private sector employees who requires regular pension after retirement.



Exemption U/S 80CCD(2):


 The pensioner of the National Pension Scheme can claim tax exemption under 80CCD(2) of Income Tax Act.

Employer must deposit his part in NPS Tier-1 account:

To take advantage of NPS in new slab system, it is necessary that the employer deposit the money in the NPS Tier-1 account. If the employer does not give the benefit of NPS, then you cannot claim the exemption. The amount deposited by the employer in NPS is part of CTC (Cast To Company).


Discount will be available only up to Rs 7.50 lakh:


                 If your employer deposits money in NPS account, then you will get a discount on it. The amount deposited in NPS account in a financial year should not exceed Rs.7.50 lakh. 